vision.ai, LLC
Software License Agreement / End-user License Agreement (EULA)

IMPORTANT NOTICE

READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF YOUR LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY
BEFORE COPYING, INSTALLING, OR USING THE PROGRAMS OR DOCUMENTATION.

THE LICENSE AGREEMENT TOGETHER WITH ANY APPLICABLE ADDENDUM REPRESENTS
THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU (THE "LICENSEE") AND VISION.AI, LLC.
("VISION.AI") CONCERNING THE PROGRAM(S) AND DOCUMENTATION.

BY COPYING, INSTALLING, OR USING THE PROGRAMS AND DOCUMENTATION, YOU
ACCEPT THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.  IF YOU ARE NOT WILLING TO DO SO,
DO NOT
COPY, INSTALL, OR USE THE PROGRAMS AND DOCUMENTATION.

_________________________________________________________________

EULA SUMMARY

## LICENSING

We, vision.ai, LLC, own VMX (the software package consisting of VMX
Server, VMX App Builder, and any associated files and documents) and
you can purchase a license from us to use VMX at home. You must agree
to the terms set forth in this end-user license agreement before using
VMX.  We made VMX open ended and want to see people use VMX creatively
-- what we do not want is a legal battle over software ownership. We
put a lot of hard work into making VMX into a finished product and
reseve the right to be the sole entity which sells VMX licenses. The
license you obtain from us is an agreement between you and us, one
which allows you to activate VMX on a single computer which you
own. You are not allowed to distribute the VMX software or any of its
components. Visit our homepage at http://vision.ai for license
purchasing details.

## PERSONAL LICENSE

The home/personal license is for individuals and for non-commercial
use. It is intended for an install on a computer which you own.  With
the home license, you are not allowed to make money off of VMX.
However, you are allowed to show off demos of anything you built with
VMX, solely for the purpose of endorsing yourself and showing the
world how awesome you and your project really is.

## NO HACKING/CRACKING

You are not allowed to disassemble, crack, hack, phreak, decompile,
trace, smash, shellshock, exploit, re-kernelize any files included
inside the VMX package as well as any model files produced by VMX.

## NO WARRANTY

This software comes with no guarantee of any kind.  It is hard to put
guarantees on computer vision and machine learning software and even
harder to guarantee that the VMX software will not crash under a heavy
processing load.  You agree to use the software as-is, and while we
hope to improve VMX, we provide no official guarantee that we will be
able to provide any software updates.  You agree to periodically
backup the models and apps produced by VMX so in the case of a
catastrophic system crash, you have a way to retrieve your work.

## EULA CHANGES

We reserve the right to update our licensing terms.  Always read over
the EULA when installing any kind of software, including the VMX EULA
of any new version you might install.

## NO HURTING/DEFAMING LIVING CREATURES

To make sure nobody gets hurt, you are not allowed to use VMX to
control any physical systems which might injure a person or
animal. You are not even allowed to make an application which
belittles individuals in any way such as making negative remarks
(e.g., “Person X is ugly”).

## NO PRODUCTION SYSTEMS

There are many things which can go wrong so you are not allowed to use
VMX in mission-critical situations.  If you want to make self-driving
cars, work at a research university or a big tech company, but you are
not allowed to do so with VMX.

## BREAKING the EULA

At any moment you break any of our licensing terms, you forfeit your
license, must stop using VMX, and must un-install VMX from your
computer.

10/2014, TJM
